#### Point 1: 
Lots of reasons! There’s a lot of fluffy, feel good, surface level stuff that I could say here, but what we wanted to do was encourage people to work together. The majority of people came from different teams and disciplines in IT, and we wanted to create an environment where people could work with and learn from new people. Although we’re all in IT, it’s typically a very different culture with different working norms in our respective teams. Maybe my team at Ford works alone for the most part and only collaborates if there’s an issue. Maybe we spend most of our time in meetings or on calls, but we wanted to our daily routines on their heads. We wanted participants to learn and innovate and experiment and get in the trenches with each other.

#### Point 2: 
We wanted to people to experience working differently. Participants were challenged to deliver an MVP by day-end. This meant working quickly and with extreme focus. Very few times in my career at Ford had there been an emphasis on delivering incremental value to the end-user by the end of day. Typically we worry about what we can deliver at the end of a release train, or whenever our next big push to production is. At the hackathon, we did away with big, upfront design and requirements -- no assuming what the user wants, but actually going out and validating a hypothesis and updating the product to reflect what we had learned. 

#### Point 3:
We wanted to the Hackathon to produce outcomes that forever changed our company's culture for the better. How great would it be if we could actually see participants adopt these new ideas and methodologies and bring them back to their teams. What if all of our product features could actually be tied back to things that real, living & breathing people want instead of outcomes being driven "by the business". 

#### Point 4:
We wanted to demonstrate working norms of a product-based team and give participants a day-in-the-life experience of what working on a product based team could be like. It's so common at Ford to be a part of a large, distributed, compartmentalized team that it becomes the norm for us. We grow accustomed to having to send an email to ask a simple question because the person who knows the answer is only supporting my team 25% of the time, or because the SME sits in a different building and it becomes this day long turn around time. Or we can't land on a meaningful decision because we "didn't have the right people in the room". This perpetuates this culture of moving slower than we have to. At the hackathon, everyone needed to make a decision on the product was in the same room, so participants could react to change quickly based off customer feedback. 
